README.md, before:

# Is It Up or Not?

Simple app to monitor a status of environments. Allows to set them "Up" and "Down" and to provide a reason why it's down.

## Deployment

App can be deployed straight to Heroku. Standard `git push heroku master` and then `heroku run rake db:migrate && heroku run rake db:seed` should suffice.

## Development

### Environment

In *root* folder, run:

    $ bundle install --without production && bundle exec rake db:migrate
    # If you want to pre-load the data:
    $ bundle exec rake db:seed

In *frontend_app* folder:

    $ npm install

### Development workflow

This app is split into two parts:

* Backend, which is a Rails API providing flags.
* Frontend JS app which uses AngularJS and Lineman for development workflow. Frontend app is stored in *frontend_app* folder.

To run the app, run two processes:

    # In root folder:
    $ bundle exec rails server

    # In frontend_app folder:
    $ lineman run

This will run a backend server on port 3000 and JS server on port 8000.
Application can be accessed using localhost:8000. JS server proxies all API requests to port 3000, preventing CORS problems.

### Ready for production

Once happy with your changes, you need some work to prepare all CSS/JS files ready for production. To do this:

    # In frontend_app folder:
    $ lineman build

    # In root folder:
    $ bundle exec rake assets:precompile

This compiles minified JS and CSS files. The latter puts this in Rails assets folder. Thanks to the extra step, there's
no need for NodeJS environment on Heroku.

Commit message:

Updated README with entry about setting Ruby version.

README.md, after:

# Is It Up or Not?

Simple app to monitor a status of environments. Allows to set them "Up" and "Down" and to provide a reason why it's down.

## Deployment

App can be deployed straight to Heroku. Standard `git push heroku master` and then `heroku run rake db:migrate && heroku run rake db:seed` should suffice.

## Development

### Pre-requisites

For local tests, please change the ruby version in Gemfile to whatever your system uses, or install respective version using tool like rbenv.

### Environment

In *root* folder, run:

    $ bundle install --without production && bundle exec rake db:migrate
    # If you want to pre-load the data:
    $ bundle exec rake db:seed

In *frontend_app* folder:

    $ npm install

### Development workflow

This app is split into two parts:

* Backend, which is a Rails API providing flags.
* Frontend JS app which uses AngularJS and Lineman for development workflow. Frontend app is stored in *frontend_app* folder.

To run the app, run two processes:

    # In root folder:
    $ bundle exec rails server

    # In frontend_app folder:
    $ lineman run

This will run a backend server on port 3000 and JS server on port 8000.
Application can be accessed using localhost:8000. JS server proxies all API requests to port 3000, preventing CORS problems.

### Ready for production

Once happy with your changes, you need some work to prepare all CSS/JS files ready for production. To do this:

    # In frontend_app folder:
    $ lineman build

    # In root folder:
    $ bundle exec rake assets:precompile

This compiles minified JS and CSS files. The latter puts this in Rails assets folder. Thanks to the extra step, there's
no need for NodeJS environment on Heroku.
